# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 14/01/2022 12:30 - 13:00
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 49-52 (2021) and 1-2 (2022)
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 3-4
3. GPU Hackathon
4. Staffing
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 49-52 (2021) and 1-2 (2022)

- Many bugs squashed, and many issues on the 0.9 milestone closed ahead of the next Dissolve workshop.
- AW nearing completion of procedure node editing (#871).
- It was noted by TY that the workshop has been moved to June 2022, giving some much needed breathing space.

## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 3-4

- AW to focus on finalising ProcedureNode work (#871) and upgrading `fmtlib` to version 8.X following some issues encountered during the GPU Hackathon (see below)
- TY to focus on current EPSR module overhaul / fixes, then return to translating current usage examples to the new 0.9 version.
- Once examples are translated, AW to go through and subsequently begin on simulating real systems to increase his scientific exposure within the team.

## 3. GPU Hackathon & Forward Plan
- The Dissolve Team (TY, AW, and DN, also with Vlad Ionica) attended an online GPU Hackathon organised by Daresbury and giving us access to an Nvidia expert.
- Coding was intended to be performed on SCARF, but a range of unexpected issues severely hampered the progress of the team.
- AW managed to parallelise some energy loops over multiple CPUs with the Nvidia compilers, but incompatibilities with the custom `PairIterator` class means that parallelisation of other core bottlenecks is non-trivial at present.
- The team discussed the reasons for this incompatibility, and suggested some ways forward (e.g. explore C++20 / Boost to see if relevant solutions have already been baked)
- Moving to the Nvidia compilers offers the possibility to compile both CPU and GPU versions easily, and allows the removal of the TBB dependency from the code.
- However, there is a lot of proof work to be done, and more complicated routines need to be investigated thoroughly for potential parallelisation by this method before any commitment to `nvc++` is made.

## 4. Staffing
- TY noted that Vlad Ionica will join Team Dissolve from the 1st of February.

## 5. AOB
- No matters arising
