# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Fri 11/02/2022 13:30 - 14:00
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Vlad Ionica (VI)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 5-6
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 7-9
3. CI/CD
4. Qt3D Planning
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 5-6

- AW finalised and merged new `Procedure` editing work (#963).
- AW has a working solution to #884 (via PR #971), with small adjustments remaining.
- AW pushing Qt dependency to version 6.2 (#969).
- TY produced a prototype 3D plotting skeleton using Qt3D (although sadly without spinning cubes).
- TY managed no further work on updating tutorials (bumped to next sprint).
- VI completed several modernisation projects (#968, #970).

## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 7-9

- TY will be away in week 8 - the team agreed to a three-week sprint and TSC in week 9.
- TY to complete rewriting tutorial documentation.
- TY to address handling of module data (#113, #149) in work adding context menu to module layer tab.
- VI to canvas input file formats, create minimal "hello world"-style examples for their usage.
- VI assigned #852 (import species misses charges).
- AW to finish #971 (add forcefield dialog error messages).
- AW to begin work on #859 (package links), #846 (sizefactor dialog), #954 (don't run RDF / sizefactor).
- AW to investigate #947 (minimiser base) time permitting.

## 3. CI/CD

TY reported that at some point on the 10th February 2022 the Axure DevOps service began blocking all jobs associated to projects in the DisorderedMaterials organisation.
The error message alludes to parallelism on jobs: "##[error]No hosted parallelism has been purchased or granted. To request a free parallelism grant, please fill out the following form https://aka.ms/azpipelines-parallelism-request".
The full Microsoft blog post is: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/devops/change-in-azure-pipelines-grant-for-private-projects/
TY has filled out the form referenced in the above post and expects an answer by early next week.

The team discussed briefly what alternatives are available, the conclusion of which was "not much". It was generally accepted that an external solution is the only viable approach, and that an in-house or on-site solution cannot reproduce the functionality that Azure DevOps or GitHub Actions offers. In respect of the latter, this is likely the only alternative if Azure DevOps becomes unviable.

## 4. Qt3D Planning

- No progress at present.

## 5. AOB

- VI experienced issues with building unit tests on Windows (related to CMake path finding) - AW to co-investigate with VI.
- AW raised the point that we should build tests on Windows in the CI. TY agreed.
- TY mentioned that the Ubuntu build/packaging jobs seem to be taking longer to run than normal, although he doesn't have concrete metrics. AW to investigate.

