# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Fri 11/03/2022 13:30 - 14:00
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Vlad Ionica (VI)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 7-10
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 11-12
3. Input File Format
4. Qt3D
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 7-10

- The sprint became a four-week sprint as opposed to the intended three-week.
- VI and AW completed test code illustrating the use of external parsing libraries. A short meeting was held to discuss the results whereupon it was decided that TOML represents the best balance between readability, structure, and ease of implementation.
- AW completed work on #947 (minimiser base), #971 (forcefield dialog error messages), and #954 (don't run RDF / sizefactor).
- AW closed some other small issues scheduled for inclusion in the 0.9 release, and moved the CI to use 6.2.2 / Windows 2022.
- VI completed work replacing uses of `std::list` with `std::vector` (#970).
- TY completed work on a generic flags class (#972), some small patches / bugfixes (#973 and #977), and has two PRs reviewed/approved covering additional partial calculation (#988) and tidying of the Monte Carlo minimiser (#987).
- TY has completed work on addressing issues #113 and #149 related to module data handling, but is working on a follow-up PR to address some immediate issues arising.
- TY made no more progress on documentation.

## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 11-12

- VI to implement serialising via TOML for all key classes, beginning with `Species`.
- AW is on A/L week 11, returning to #914, #984 and #989 in week 12.
- As a side project, AW will investigate potential uses of `libtorch`.
- TY will work on consistent signalling between and update of widgets in the GUI when core data objects change (removal, rename, addition).
- TY to work on documentation for 0.9 (time permitting).

## 3. Input File Format

- Chose TOML over XML and (marginally) YAML for readability and more well-defined structure relative to YAML.

ACTION:

- AW / VI to update decision document.

## 4. Qt3D

- TY noted that he has been continuing to tinker with Qt3D as a solution for our general graphing / visualisation needs, and is presently implementing custom shader code in order to provide the volume clipping necessary for the data rendering.

## 5. AOB

- No matters arising.
