# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Fri 11/03/2022 13:30 - 14:00
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Vlad Ionica (VI)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

#### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 7-10
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 11-12
3. Input File Format
4. Qt3D
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 7-10

- The sprint became a four-week sprint as opposed to the intended three-week.
- VI and AW completed test code illustrating the use of external parsing libraries. A short meeting was held to discuss the results whereupon it was decided that TOML represents the best balance between readability, structure, and ease of implementation.
- AW completed work on #947 (minimiser base), #971 (forcefield dialog error messages), and #954 (don't run RDF / sizefactor).
- AW closed some other small issues scheduled for inclusion in the 0.9 release, and moved the CI to use 6.2.2 / Windows 2022.
- VI completed work replacing uses of `std::list` with `std::vector` (#970).
- TY completed work on a generic flags class (#972), some small patches / bugfixes (#973 and #977), and has two PRs reviewed/approved covering additional partial calculation (#988) and tidying of the Monte Carlo minimiser (#987).
- TY has completed work on addressing issues #113 and #149 related to module data handling, but is working on a follow-up PR to address some immediate issues arising.


## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 11-12


## 3. Input File Format


## 4. Qt3D Planning



## 5. AOB

