# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Fri 25/03/2022 13:30 - 14:00
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Vlad Ionica (VI)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 11-12
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 13-14
3. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 11-12

- AW: SIF containers now appear functional on IDAaaS - CI pipelines are being updated.
- VI made good progress with implementing TOML serialisation throughout the `Species` class.
- TY made no more progress on documentation.
- TY will work on consistent signalling between and update of widgets in the GUI when core data objects change (removal, rename, addition).
- It was noted by the team that the delayed 0.9 milestone is now more-or-less ready for public consumption, and we should move to this as the current release.

## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 13-14

- AW to investigate potential uses of `libtorch`.
- AW to address data signalling / invalidation in Bragg module.
- VI to continue with TOML serialisation (`MasterIntra` and `Configuration` classes).
- TY to finalise species conformer node (following `constify-processpool`, PR #995).
- TY to work on documentation for 0.9 (time permitting).

## 3. AOB

- No matters arising.
