# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Fri 6/5/2022 13:45 - 14:15
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Vlad Ionica (VI)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 15-18
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 19-20
3. TOML Handover
4. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 15-18

- Species conformer node completed (#995).
- Many small bugfixes and feature improvements.
- Initial TOML-processing implemented.
- AW made an initial investigation of the use of `libtorch` - ongoing.
- Documentation update in progress - final example being worked up by TY.
- Milestone 0.9 is very nearly complete, allowing release in the next sprint period.
- AW concerned that Qt's focus from Qt6 is increasingly shifting towards QML, with widgets becoming a rather legacy construct. This is a future concern that should be tracked.
- IDAaaS now has continuous builds of Dissolve available, and is ready for the release build to be incorporated.

## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 19-20

- TY to focus on finalising last existing tutorial example, and pushing release of 0.9.0.
- Following release of 0.9.0, TY will establish what are the necessary code modifications / additions required to implement new examples, thus guiding the sprint for the team.
- AW to ensure TOML work is maintained following VI leaving the team.

## 3. TOML Handover

- Issues with outstanding PR #1035 and duplication of certain objects arising from test code.
- Several routes forward were proposed - moving the test code to its own independent unit-test, separating it from the main code, was selected as the best option moving forward.

## 4. AOB

- TY noted that Windows builds were failing relatively regularly on the CI due to going over the allotted time (currently two hours). There seems to be no obvious reason for this to happen given recent changes in the code, but the time limit will be increased to mitigate the problem.
- TY thanked VI for his hard work and excellent contributions during his time on the project. The team will miss his dedication to the Windows platform.
