# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Fri 20/5/2022 13:30 - 14:00
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 19-20
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 21-22
3. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 19-20

- AW continued TOML integration and planning, following VI leaving the team.
- AW worked on ans submitted a PR to fix critical issues with Qt in our Singularity images, arising from breaking changes on the IDAaaS platform.
- TY submitted small PRs addressing a variety of bugs ahead of the 0.9 release.
- TY still working on converting the last tutorial example, following discovery of several difficult issues/bugs with analysis routines in the code.

## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 21-22

- TY to focus on finalising last existing tutorial example, and pushing release of 0.9.0.
- AW to work on moving loading of initial configuration coordinates (#1026).
- AW to continue work on TOML, focussing on Configurations.

## 3. AOB

- TY contacted the IDAaaS team regarding release of the continuous build of Dissolve, and changes to DM machines have been pushed to production ahead of the next release.
- JS has been working with TY on new plotting library functionality for potential integration with Dissolve. To be discussed / reviewed in more detail at a future TSC.
- AM offered to help test the new release of Dissolve ahead of the upcoming DMUGM - TY to notify him once documentaion has been updated to reflect the new release.
