# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Thu 18/08/2022 13:30 - 14:00
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

- Lamar Moore (LM)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

### Agenda

1. TSC Schedule

2. Sprint Planning, weeks 34-38

3. Dissolve @ Disordered Materials UGM and Workshop

4. Certificates / Signing

5. TOML

6. ProcedureNode

7. Qt3D / Graphing

8. AOB

...


### 1. TSC Schedule

- The team are aware that, due to various holidays, secondments, and other external events, this is the first TSC meeting since May 2022. However, there have been no significant technical issues arising during the past three months, and so this has not been to the detriment of the project.


### 2. Sprint Planningw, Weeks 34-38
- TY to continue handling user science issues, developing / fixing code as necessary.
- TY to continue `ProcedureNode` editing work.
- TY is on A/L week 35.
- AW to continue curating / developing TOML capability
- AW is on A/L weeks 34 and 39, and seconded back to Mantid for weeks 35 - 38. AW to resume full-time work on the project on 3/10/22.

### 3. Dissolve @ Disordered Materials UGM and Workshop

- TY reported that the Dissolve workshop at the Disordered Materials UGM went well, with a handful of minor bugs and usability features discovered which have since been fixed in a series of PRs. Several issues which are seemiingly specific to either Windows or IDAaaS were observed and are currently being investigated.

### 4. Certificates / Signing
- TY noted that signing the Windows installers would be beneficial to Dissolve (as well as other DM group software, e.g. GudPy).
- AW noted that Mantid have signing certificate, we could use the same.
- DN suggested that SSG should take ownership of certificate and allow use for all.
- Dissolve should consider using that too.
- OSX need further consideration.

### 5. TOML
- AW reported that recent changes related to TY's `ProcedureNode` work need to be incorporated, but that this was based off version 1.0, while the TOML is necessarily being implemented on top of the 0.9.X branch in order to bridge compatibility between the two version streams. However, AW reported that cherry-picking the proc-edit-3 PR (#1182) solves most of that issue.
- AW stated that the TOML branch on good footing.
- TY asked what major tasks were left, to which AW replied the bulk of the remaining work lays in converting processing layes - while generators/nodes will be handled by upcoming `Configuration` work, individual keywords must still be converted to be part of the TOML serialisation.
- On-hold until AW returns from A/L / secondment.

### 6. ProcedureNode
- TY reported that, while going well, the work has expanded from an anticipated four PRs to now at least seven - most of this is due to required refactoring work, and the knock-on effects of hardening the underlying classes within other parts of the code.
- TY reported that the Qt model is now more-or-less fully functional.
- Next steps are to turn `SequenceProcedureNode` into a plain class not derived from `ProcedureNode` - this will allow significant tidying up of the node hierarchy as well as permit moving of nodes into empty (currently non-existent) branches within the Qt model.

### 7. Qt3D / Graphing
- TY noted that an estimated 20 - 30 outstanding issues logged on GitHub are related to graphing, plotting, and visualisation.
- Most of these are outstanding because of the reluctance of TY to develop the old rendering code when we are knowingly trying to move to an alternative.
- TY reported that he will attempt to get a fully-functional version of Qt3D-based visualisation working in the coming months, at which point the team can critically assess the (de)merits of moving Dissolve to that platform.

### 8. AOB
- TY noted that a joint ISIS/Nottingham PhD student will start in October, and whose project is to work on glassy materials and multiconfiguration fitting within Dissolve. When the student is ready he will join the Dissolve team and work on small bugs / issues in the code for training purposes.
- TY revealed that Disordered Materials had been awarded an industrial placement student for next year who will work on creating a link between GudPy and Dissolve. At some point in the future, the student will likely join Team Dissolve in order to promote that work.

