# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 25th November 2022, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies
- None

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 46-47
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 48-49
3. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 46-47

- TY implemented some optimisations in the `Interpolator` class (#1273) following preliminary investigation into #1270.
- AW noted that some further optimisation of TY's PR #1273 could be made, and which account for the common use case of traversing through a sequence of increasing x values of an array. This is captured in issue #1274.
- This prompted some discussion between AW, AM, and TY over the usefulness of Chebyshev polynomials as the interpolating function. After due consideration, it was decided that, while a nice mathematical construct to have, their applicability to the code (and the benefits they might bring) are hard to determine.

## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 48-49

- AW to continue TOML branch work.
- TY to continue efficiency optimisations in EPSR module (#1270)

## 4. AOB

- Daniel Bradley (DB) (Nottingham) is being onboarded into the team with a view to work on adding general "over-potentials" to the code, permitting point restraints, general fields, and coordination number energetics to be implemented over the coming year.
- TY will meet with DB early next week to check on his development set-up, and prepare for initial pair-programming tasks with AW later in the week.
- TY expressed doubt over whether the TSCs were currently necessary given the nature of current changes / work being undertaken in the code. DN pointed out that they also captured sprint planning, and TY hastily (and happily) retracted any idea of decommissioning the TSCs due to DB imminently joining the team.
- AW noted that the TSC scheduled for the 9th December 2022 will be his last of the year ahead of A/L.
