# Dissolve PMC Minutes 1

Minutes of the 1st Meeting of the Dissolve Project Management Committee, 6th February 2020, ISIS Meeting Room R3 2.10.

Present:
- Daniel Bowron (DB)
- Sabrina Gaertner (SG)
- Tom Headen (TH)
- Sean Langridge (SL)
- Helen Playford (HP)
- Simona (SS)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Tristan Youngs (TY)

Apologies:
- Oliver Alderman
- Alex Hannon

The meeting was chaired by DB and HP took the minutes.

## Agenda

1. Current Status of Dissolve
2. Workshop Review
3. Items for Immediate Fixes
4. Future Roadmap
5. AOB
6. Date of Next Meeting

## 1. Current Status

TY reported that Dissolve is currently in a stable working state, very similar to the version used at the workshop. There are examples available that were tested and OK at the workshop. Dissolve can do refinements and replicate lots of EPSR functionality. AW is now going through a 3-4 month start-up with Lamar Moore, and is simultaneously getting involved with the Dissolve project. TH asked if the GUI currently runs the serial or parallel version of the code, and TY clarified that it is serial but that the code "underneath" is parallelised for use on HPC but that some setup instructions will need to be provided. SG asked if the GUI may be able to run the parallel code in the future and it was stated that this is a future goal. SL asked if any external people are using the code and it was stated that yes, some are.

SL raised a question about the reproducibility and "correctness" of the results that Dissolve produces. DB and TY explained that they had checked agreement with EPSR (with favourable results) and that the paper compares some simple examples between EPSR and Dissolve. TY used the phrase "EPSR with forcefields" as a very simple description of Dissolve.

## 2. Workshop Review

The workshop had about 50 participants including a variety of established researchers, students and postdocs. DB noted that on passing through nothing but focused silence was heard in the room! In terms of lessons learned, TY reported that there were some issues with stability on Mac and Windows, and with different versions of Mac OS (at first only Catalina was supported but High Sierra and Mojave have been added). Some Mac users encountered cosmetic issues with "dark mode" and different display widgets. There was also an issue with high DPI displays (e.g. Surface Pro) whereby the scaling of GUI elements was wrong.

The installers worked well and lots of positive feedback was received about the tutorial materials. It was also noted that some users tried to go beyond the examples.

For the upcoming Neutron Training Course the same examples will be used but Windows stability issues will be addressed beforehand.

## 3. Items for Immediate Fixes

TY stated that he believed he had a fix for the high-DPI issue, but lacks a suitable monitor to test it on. DB stated he can test some things on his Surface tablet.

The next two features to work on are forcefields and X-ray weightings.

TH queried where forcefields would come from (TY explained to the group that Dissolve uses full MD forcefields which need more user input than EPSR's empirical potentials did). TY stated that the aim was to provide a simple set that work for most things and have education materials for users wishing to go further. TH suggested using tabulated information from an MD program like GROMACs.

## 4. Future Roadmap

DB queried whether it would be necessary to limit the size of models that could be run using the serial/GUI version, and TY responded that a limit would apply to all versions and that there's no reason other than slowness that a 106 atom model couldn't be run in the GUI. DB stated the concern that users would attempt to push the program beyond reasonable limits and blame the developers when it doesn't work. He feels that there should be a clearly stated recommended scope for the different program versions.

SL asked whether Dissolve was going to be available on IDAAS, and the answer was that yes it will be, and in fact it was planned to already be there in time for the workshop.

SL noted that if Dissolve users become heavy users of SCARF then it might be appropriate to consider its requirements when investing in upgrades for SCARF (e.g. new hardware).

SL asked how the needs of users would be taken into account. TY replied that he planned to invite any users that were on site to come to future PMC meetings, and that users seemed to be very keen to have an online discussion forum which will be created as long as the cost is not substantial. SL noted that there is a danger of users rushing ahead and the demand for help becoming too much of a burden and TY responded that they hoped to mitigate this somewhat by keeping the initial release small.

SL asked who was the named Project Manager and it was stated that this could be TY with DB as sponsor. SL questioned this and stated his belief that someone external would be better in this role, as TY already wears many hats! SL recommended talking to Lamar and Adam about this.

DB asked HP for advice from her experience with RMCProfile. She stated that keeping the core development team small and reasonably local was preferable to having a transatlantic team! She also mentioned that communication between developers is absolutely key. Finally she stated that it was important to keep an eye on different versions of the code (since it is open source theoretically anyone could make their own version) and be clear on which is the "official" version that ISIS users can expect to get support on and so forth. She noted that there are a large number of slightly different versions of RMCProfile that the developers are trying to consolidate, but it would have been far better to avoid the splintering in the first place!

DB asked AW for advice on the software side of things. AW stated that it was a project with a small "bus factor", meaning that not many people would have to be hit by a bus for the project to fail! He also feels that there is quite a lot of underlying plumbing to change which is somewhat tedious for the developers and won't be very visible to the users, but the ultimate improvements to stability will benefit them greatly. Lamar Moore has also made some suggestions for dramatic changes to the codebase which TY needs to think more about before deciding which direction to take the program.

The current development team is TY, SS and AW. There will be a sandwich student starting summer 2020 who will work on advanced scientific testing and documentation. TY stated that he should put in another sandwich student application because SS's role has been invaluable.

In terms of available funding for more development effort, HP wondered if the Ada Lovelace Centre might be appropriate, but TY and DB expressed concern about the need for a digital asset (as the ownership of Dissolve would under no circumstances be transferred to ALC!). HP suggested querying the definition of digital asset noting that the ALC have happily funded Bob Von Dreele's work despite that being an addition to an existing codebase that ALC do not own.

## 5. AOB

It was noted that as a result of the CCP-5 cancellation there may be programmers at a "loose end" needing work that would benefit facilities. There was some discussion about how best to capitalise on this, and it was considered worth thinking about in the future.

There was also recently a call for ISIS/ILL postdocs to which one response mentioned Dissolve but it was unclear what the proposed project actually was so DB felt that there was nothing useful to pursue there.

It was noted that distributing the binaries of Dissolve on Github was not ideal and that an external website is needed. The committee were in agreement that this was a good idea, but could not agree on a URL! Sadly Dissolve.com is not available. Although there was lots of spirited discussion about this, no agreement could be reached and the action to shortlist some acceptable possibilities was given to TY.

## 6. Date of Next Meeting

It was felt that the PMC should meet around every 2-3 months. The next meeting will be held in approximately 2 months, after the NTC.
