# Dissolve PMC Minutes 2

Minutes of the 2nd Meeting of the Dissolve Project Management Committee, 5th November 2020, via Zoom.

Present:
- Oliver Alderman (OA)
- Daniel Bowron (DB)
- Sabrina Gaertner (SG)
- Alex Hannon (AH)
- Tom Headen (TH)
- Helen Playford (HP)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Tristan Youngs (TY)

Apologies:
- Callum Green (CG)

The meeting was chaired by TY and HP took the minutes.

## Agenda

1. Introduction
2. Recent Progress
    - Feature Implementation (TY)
    - Website (TY)
    - Proof Testing (TY/CG/TH)
    - Parallelism (AW)
3. Release 0.7
    - EPSR + x-ray
    - Improve documentation
    - Update tutorials
4. Release 0.8 Discussion
5. General Discussion
    - Transition Timetable EPSR --> Dissolve
6. Any Other Business


## 1. Introduction

TY welcomed everyone and said users might be invited to the next PMC.

## 2. Recent Progress

### Feature Implementation

Progress has been understandably slow since March (COVID). Some progress more recently, including new features as well as changes to data handling, which should hopefully make things a lot clearer when things are passed between different routines etc. X-ray structure factor weightings available (not RDF – various reasons). System tests are sorted. Getting in the habit of adding new tests when new features (and forcefields) are added. This should hopefully mitigate misuse further down the line! New modern way of writing/interpreting grammar (?). Improved gui, e.g. new layout. Tabs have changed so you can't (don't need to) open millions of them. Some users (Joanna Bush, Lorna Dougan students, Harrison Laurent helping, also Callum doing lots of useful testing) are working with it and bug reports are coming in. TH asks question about stability – an existing crashing GUI bug is still there but now more rarely reported? TH asks about TY plan to send out promotional email – should we be a bit more conservative? TY agrees, and has a shortlist of people to send it out to who will test it and provide feedback. DB agrees, as a mass email would lead to a frenzy of feedback, bug reports etc, and this is frustrating to everyone.

### Website

TY show and tell of website https://projectDissolve.com (mostly done by Simona – nice) incl. links to GitHub. Links to release and dev versions. DB asked and TY clarified that all versions are compiled every time there is a change. TY acknowledges not enough documentation, plan to make better for next release. Also notes that there are direct links to edit the docs on GitHub (hint hint). There will only ever be one version of the documentation. New features will be tagged with the version that they were added in. AW noted that any really interested people could get the info from the Git history. DB noted importance of a full set of documentation prior to the release. Suggests a version/release "freeze" a month before a workshop. TY agrees. DB asks about snapshots of the documentation to tie them to release version. TY says this is possible but it can get very bogged down when there are lots of versions. AW says how about having docs for current release on website and then have archived/compressed versions of docs for older releases. DB makes the point that you might need offline version of the docs (e.g. bundled with the download/install?) AW mentions a way to put this into the GUI – TY agrees that this is something to think about. Noted that tutorials are fab but reference documentation is what needs work.

### Proof Testing

Mostly done by CG. Working on reproducing some work on Benzene that Tom did. Overall fit is slightly worse than EPSR (especially at lower temperatures) but importantly the structural changes that are observed are consistent between EPSR and Dissolve. TH mentioned that more experimentation is needed to explore how the differences in treating the intramolecular forces manifest in the results. (EPSR treated interactions within molecules independently from the surrounding molecules). DB asked for clarification. EPSR and Dissolve provide same pictures? (TH: yes) and Do the models both fall within data error bars? (TY/TH: good test! Need to do this!). TY says structural conclusions are consistent but fits don't look visually as good. Not sure if bug or problem or…? DB also suggests taking the structure factors and using minimum noise FT of Alan's which will apply sensible error bars and allow you to check for consistency. OA asks if you can switch off the MD handling of the simulation? TY: yes you can do pure MC and have floppy bonds just like EPSR. Thus, DB suggests a "EPSR settings" and a "recommended Dissolve settings" button to automatically set the flags. TY says this is a forcefield choice thing, so it might be that you'd have to approximate an EPSR version of the forcefield but it's not so simple as that. TH suggests a way of doing this and TY agrees.

### Parallelism

AW says we have a kind of roadmap. First element is that modernisation must continue. Second is STL (OpenMPI is what we already have) parallelism – across multiple cores on same node. Then some further libraries that could allow some really exotic architectures. The idea is that each steps will lead to another. DB asks if each step makes previous code redundant, or does it build? AW says it should build on previous steps as changes will make the next step easier! Says that 80% of each steps work will be kept! TY says this is a necessary evil to avoid lots of separate sources (madness!). AW mentions SyCL library which is designed to have backends for many different architectures and should in some ways be futureproof as SyCL will just need to add the backend. DB noted that we should probably work with the kinds of hardware that will be available within STFC – SCARF, ARCHER and the future! (I could not hear everything AW said at this point). TY notes this is a big job with a bigger benefit if it is done carefully and properly. TH asks how this roadmap affects performance, and the answer is that it has both gotten faster and slower so far! AW says it should always be a step forward but with the caveat that you are limited to CPUs on one node (which is a step back from MPI). DB noted that naïve STL seemed to be fastest on a single node – why? AW says this is due to the general modernisation and is an ongoing progress!

## 3. Release 0.7

TY shared the "high-level" roadmap for things that need doing. There are columns for future "to-do" items, ongoing tasks, and then for the next releases (0.7 and 0.8). TY initially thought a 3 monthly release, but this has changed to just adding one "killer feature" each release. For 0.7 this will be X-ray capability (refinement with X-ray data). Once this is finished and documented 0.7 will be released.

## 4. Release 0.8 Discussion

What goes in to 0.8 as its killer feature? DB asks about the Coarse Graining support, which is pending arrival of ALC person. Also notes that Bragg and porous are together. TY agrees and puts them both into 0.8 as a proposal.

There is a note that the multi-configuration fitting is the subject of a studentship with Emma.

OA asks if there's a list of features beyond EPSR that are already included. TY says not but OA is invited to ask them. OA – isomers and conformers? TY adds Grand Canonical Monte Carlo but then TH says actually OA means "exotic moves" which gets added as a different thing. TH says is this team shared? TY says yes with the project teams but the Inst. Scientists could also be added.

## 5. General Discussion

TH asks is 1.0 when the code gets the big community release and what is wanted for that? TY we always said 1.0 would reproduce EPSR. TH says it's not about the numbering but what features/stability/testing will denote that 1.0 is ready? TY says Bragg is in EPSR but porous stuff would be "new". SG asks about other missing features, TY says there are some analyses that are missing, e.g. ways to calculate interesting properties from Dissolve (0.9)? This gets added to the roadmap as "Calculables". SG suggests making a full list of missing features, to guide what is needed for v1.0.

TY says that once we prove consistency between the programs the majority of the work is done. DB says "scientific equivalent functionality". Which means it has to be able to calculate "all the scientific observables" that people have been using EPSR for and this should be part of 1.0. It seems that this is then forming the plan for version 0.9!

DB says coarse graining is a future thing, and mentions that it could be tied in to small angle scattering observables – e.g. the ability to build in shapes/polydispersity etc. TH mentions that an atomistic version of this is a focus of a project with James Doutch. There is some discussion about importing different structural formats (e.g. pdb) which is possible but tricky. TY says this will be driven by a good use case.

## 6. AOB

TH asks about user meetings/workshop plans. TY says we could have a virtual workshop next year. And this would be good to get user feedback, but first we need something to show. Is NTC running in 2021? Unsure. DB is reluctant to run virtual software learning workshops, but TY says it's more of a user engagement meeting. DB says what about a demo at a user meeting? TY says it would be more of an opportunity for users to share their needs. TH suggests a Dissolve Zoom drop in day or two where people can work through the tutorials and drop in to ask questions. SG agrees with this suggestion. TY also likes it. SG asks if website is still in active development, which TY says it is & it is open for feedback. TY says the nicest thing about the website is that it should auto-update whenever something new is added.
