# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 28/02/2020 12:30 - 14:00
### CR11 - RL, R3 (20, VC)

### Attending

- Lamar Moore (LM)
- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Adam Washington (AW)

### Agenda

1. Project Overview (Data Structures, Data Pipeline, Dependencies, Health, Development so far/components/gui/etc.)
  - Technical Debt
- Deployment (LM/DN)
- High Level Reporting – (TY/AW)
- Progress Review
- Planning
- Blockers
- Discussion – Release Strategy
- AOB


## 1. Project Overview

- TY and AW presented a high-level overview of the main classes and their relation.
- The general process of the code was discussed and described in order to provide a suitable picture of the basic workflow of the code to LM and DN. Once completed, all parties had at least a working knowledge of the basic concept of the code ("from input to answers"). TY agreed with LM that this initial outline of the code could be expanded in to an excellent document to have for onboarding purposes.
- AW presented clang-tidy analysis of the code, succinctly highlighting the prevalent formatting issues. DN indicated that the majority of this fixup could be done automatically using the relevant tools.
- On the subject of the heavy use of template classes for memory management in the code, and the subsequent prevalence of pointers, DN stated that he considered the best course of action to be object referencing instead, and avoid using the heap completely.
- AW suggested that weak pointers could instead be used.
- LM queried how the code avoided pointers going out of scope, since raw pointers are used throughout the code. TY explained that, since one the code is running, the stack of new'd objects is essentially static, there are few chances for objects to be inadvertently destroyed and lead to crashes through invalid memory access. However, he went on to say that the GUI provides more scope for these situations to occur, but there exist a series of high-level "cleanup" routines to nullify pointers to objects that are about to go out of scope.
- In discussing the architecture of the project, AW suggested that the custom format of the main output file could be replaced with a standard format, e.g. JSON or toml. This will be discussed in a future meeting.

ACTION: TY to produce outline workflow document for the code.

## 2. Deployment

- DN had previously highlighted that existing CI workflows were not suitable for the introduction of, e.g., static analysis as they are spread over multiple files. He suggested a single pipeline approach, referencing an Azure pipelines approach currently employed by the Scipp project.
- After discussion it was agreed that converting the existing GitHub workflows in Dissolve into a single pipeline approach is entirely feasible, and this should be performed in order to allow the missing CI tasks to be integrated.

ACTION: DN, TY, and LM to create suitable CI pipeline.

## 3. High Level Reporting

- TY reported that current progress on the code (milestone 0.6) is going according to plan, with the primary upcoming deadline being the NTC, for which Dissolve will be used in a workshop for the options day on the 19th March. For this, he had been working principally on fixing usability issues in the OSX version, but since Dissolve had recently been added in to IDAaaS he has refocussed to tackling general (known) usability issues in order to improve the user experience.
- TY also reported that Dissolve would be used in a Diamond PDF analysis workshop in July, and that they would like x-ray scattering to be incorporated for that event. This forms the basis for milestone 0.7, and is compatible with the general feature development perspectives of both the Disordered Materials group and its user community.

## 4. Progress Review

- LM emphasised the need for progress and workload on the project to be quantified and tracked, for developers, external parties, and senior management alike, and for this information to be available "at a glance".
- TY agreed, and stated that he had already begun collecting together related issues / feature developments into separate projects.
- AW mentioned that he had been working on a branch that used features of the Boost library, but it was decided that a full discussion on this topic was beyond the scope of the meeting, and would be made at a later date.

## 5. Planning

- LM queried whether TY had made suitable time estimates on the features being implemented for the upcoming milestone 0.6. TY replied that, while he had not put numbers on the tasks attributed to that milestone, that he had made a conscious estimate of the time required, and had considered the milestone to be a realistic goal.
- TY went on to say that other significant work commitments had slowed progress on the milestone, and had added some time pressure on its delivery.

## 6. Blockers

- TY raised the fact that AW has two outstanding PRs (#196 - Make RefList STL compatible, #217 - PointerArray based on std::vector) of which the former has had significant review / comment, and the latter has not. Because of the significant volumes or both review / discussion and the number of changes made in #196, TY sought clarity on the best way forward.
- AW suggested that he could close #196 and rebase his changes in order to create a series of smaller PRs, but LM thought that this was thought unnecessary if TY was happy with the contained changes, and confident that it would not break the code. TY agreed, and it was decided that LM and TY would perform a light re-review of the changes before the request was merged.
- TY raised an exception on the suggested use of the 'auto' keyword throughout the code (mentioned in review of #196). LM and DN strongly advocated its use, and after some discussion it was decided that TY would go and "think about it". 

## 7. Discussion - Release Strategy

- It was agreed that, in the interests of time, this would be discussed at the next TSC meeting.

## 8. AOB

- TY reported that the new external website is progressing well, and is being written in Hugo following discussions with DN. After initial learning of the new technology, the existing Jekyll site has now been almost completely ported over by Simona (industrial placement student).
