# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 30/04/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Zoom

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Stephen Smith (SS)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 16-17
2. Parallelism Update
3. Benchmarking
4. GUI - Charts
5. Applying Dissolve to a Large System
6. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 16-17
- TY noted that some significant PRs had been merged during the past sprint, most notably from SS and his work on multithreading.
- Other major PRs from AW (Nix packaging, SpeciesTab modernisation) and TY (Bragg scattering, Array modernisation) are ongoing at this time.
- AW noted that SnapCraft have redefined some things in their spec, and now only allow import of libs from specific directories. This causes issues for the ongoing work on the Nix packaging to the extent where some hacking of the system is going to be required.
- TY stated that, since the idea of packaging via Nix was originally proposed, other native packages have been realised, and so the impact of the Nix build is lower than it once was.
- For the system where it was envisaged Nix would be most useful (IDAaaS) TY said that a native build of Qt 5.15.2 and Dissolve was about to be integrated into IDAaaS by Franz Lang, using scripts TY had already written.
- In light of this, AW, TY, and SS agreed that Nix packaging should be suspended indefinitely, but that Docker containers and a SnapCraft package would be relatively straightforward to achieve.

ACTION: AW to add relevant issues on GitHub.

- AM Asked for clarification on the difference between Docker and Snap, to which AW explained that Snap doesn't use a VM, whereas Docker does, and that from the user's perspective a Snap acts like a single binary container, and which may be potentially stored on a central repository allowing automatic package updates on user's machines.

## 2. Parallelism

- SS stated that he was currently working on multithreading force calculation having completed related work on energy calculation.
- SS questions some specifics behind potentially shared class variables when calculating torsions and impropers.
- TY stated that these calculations were amongst the worst (in terms of equations and variable storage requirements) in Dissolve, but that the variables could be process independent provided one torsion/improper is calculated by one process.
- SS suggested further ways of improving the use of `ForceKernel` in multithreaded applications
- TY asked what the plan going forward into the next sprint would be, suggesting that once forces were complete that it might be nice to implement baseline MPI/threads algorithms for exemplar functions such as RDF and energy calculation, leaving the more difficult problems (e.g. Monte Carlo) until the approach is established.
- SS and AW agreed.

## 3. Benchmarking

- TY noted that, aside from the GitHub pages not directly displaying the benchmarks because they are not linked to, there was a performance regression flagged by the system from a commit which did not in itself change any code.
- SS suggested that this was most likely just a "blip" on the instance running the benchmarks, to which TY agreed.

## 4. GUI - Charts

- TY raised a question over the viability of the current custom visualisation (viewer) systems present within Dissolve, citing that they are "a bit ugly", not as performant as desired, are responsible for several tracked bugs, and require a fragile dependency in FTGL.
- TY considered the possibility of using QtChart as a replacement, and asked for the opinions of the team.
- None of the team raised and specific concerns about using QtChart, but wondered about any alternatives.
- It was mentioned that DN had previously search for device- / platform-agnostic rendering solutions for projects he was involved in, but TY recalled that he had eventually gone back to VTK, which is a significant dependency to add in to Dissolve.
- AW further suggested that the OpenGL-based species / configuration rendering was simply balls and cylinders, and could probably be easily realised using Qt3D.
- TY agreed that this was certainly worth doing as part of the transition to Qt-based tech.
- SS raised the issue that the Qt company seem to be on a drive towards commercial licenses only.
- TY and AW agreed that this was indeed a potential cause for concern, and we should proceed as we currently are but monitor the situation accordingly.
- A tentative roadmap for this was suggested by TY, with v0.8 incorporating Bragg scattering and partial multithreading support, v0.9 offering full multithreading support and an as-yet unwritten "killer feature", and v1.0 moving graphing to QtChart. Qt3D integration would be considered after that, putting this at around a 6-month start date from now (October / November 2021).
- AM wanted to better understand the use-case for rendering / visualisation within Dissolve.

ACTION: TY to send details to AM for running Dissolve to assess rendering etc.

## 5. Applying Dissolve to a Large System

- TY gave some details of a recent meeting he had with colleagues working on a project that is, currently, trying to simulate and refine micelle formation with the existing code, EPSR.
- TY stated that these simulations are at the limit of what EPSR can handle (130k - 140k atoms) but that this presented an excellent test for Dissolve, in particular the ongoing parallelism work.
- TY suggested that this could be undertaken by himself, AW, and SS as a joint scientific / technical exploration of Dissolve
- AW agreed that this would be a good idea, and should help identify current bottlenecks in the code.

## 6. AOB

- AM mentioned the recent RSE meeting at which AW presented information on Dissolve, and the presence of a similar code in Scientific Software, MDMC+
- AM suggested that a meeting between the development teams of Dissolve / MDMC+ would be useful in order to highlight potential areas for collaboration, sharing of ideas, etc.
- AW suggested that, at the least, a common format for sharing relevant data (e.g. pair potentials) between the two codes could be of benefit.
- TY agreed.

ACTION: AM to organise meeting between relevant parties in approx. 1 month
