# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Fri 28/05/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Virtual

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Stephen Smith (SS)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

### Agenda

0. Actions from Previous Meeting
1. Sprint Review, weeks 18-21
2. Parallelism
3. Refactoring
4. UX
5. AOB

## 0. Actions from Previous Meeting
- [x] AW to add relevant issues for Docker / Snap build on GitHub.
- [ ] *ONGOING* TY to send details to AM for running Dissolve to assess rendering etc.
- [ ] *ONGOING* AM to organise meeting between relevant Dissolve / MDMC+ parties in approx. 1 month

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 18-21
- Covering a four-week period owing to the lack of a TSC on the 14th May, TY noted that there was a good general mix of code refactoring, UX improvements, addition of functionality, and increases in performance, representing a balanced mix moving the code forward in all areas.
- TY politely requested that PRs be tagged with the sprint (project) during which they were submitted, to aid in data capturing long term.

## 1a. Packaging
- LM queried whether Dissolve was available on IDAaaS, to which TY replied that the latest release (0.7.5) was there, but the development version still required a nightly build system to be set up.
- LM asked if a specific CentOS 7 package could be generated - TY stated that the dependencies (Qt 5.12+, gcc 9.3) made this difficult, but that he successfully created scripts to build the code (and Qt) on IDAaaS, and which could be incorporated in to an "IDAaaS Build Server" to provide the neatest solution without requiring external hardware / infrastructure.
- DN asked about the status of the Nix build that AW was previously working on, and could it generate Flatpak or Snap images. AW stated that Flatpak generation was never possible with Nix, but Snap was still a possibility.
- DN suggested that, for the long term goal, these various packaging systems should be assessed in order to gauge the most beneficial (i.e. support, prevalence) for the community.
- It was asked what the user community need / use - TY said that the most probable common use case was for a Windows / OSX user to use the GUI to set up simulations and perhaps do a preliminary run, but that production simulations were typically performed on HPC.

## 2. Parallelism
- TY gave a brief overview of the progress on the threaded build, which has delivered some significant performance gains.
- SS said that most of the infrastructure was there, but that it had become apparent that there were lots of optimisations to be performed, to which TY agreed.
- TY and SS had both spotted a significant performance improvement to make in a current PR addressing the total energy calculation (#701) involving proper use of the upper-triangular matrix.
- SS asked whether the same optimisation could be performed with the RDF calculation.
- TY responded by saying that this could be done, but would require pre-calculation of suitable neighbour-list cells to the g(r) cutoff.
- TY noted that performance gains in Monte Carlo routines were still difficult to optimise, with only modest performance gains being made on machines with a large number of cores.
- SS suggested that tuning of the TBB grain size could be beneficial, but both he and AW noted that this is not usually recommended, and TBB should be left to manage itself in this regard.

## 3. Refactoring Progress
- TY asked what the status of the `ListItem` removal was - AW summarised that 54 of 78 classes had had that dependency removed.
- The team discussed what other refactoring targets were outstanding, with AW highlighting several that still required work.
- AW will address more of the `ListItem` removal in the upcoming sprint
- TY will address further removal of the custom `Array` class in the upcoming sprint

## 4. UX
- TY suggested that the GUI has fallen behind the rest of the code somewhat, especially given the newly-added ability for the GUI to run multithreaded.
- In particular, TY noted that Dissolve is particularly ugly in Dark Mode (SS agreed!)
- TY to address UX elements affected by Dark Mode in the upcoming sprint.
- It was also mentioned that graphing was both particularly out-of-date, and also had usability issues.
- TY suggested that the incorporation of QtChart should be brought forward to improve the UX - AW agreed.
- It was decided that 0.8.0 would be released once work updating the ForcefieldTab was completed, with minor patches anticipated to address small improvements to Bragg calculation
- Version 0.9 would then encompass the move to QtChart (potentially moving to Qt 6 at the same time) along with the introduction of capabilities to permit modelling of porous silica-type systems.

## 5. AOB
- LM mentioned that SS was required back on the Mantid project full time, but that there was a possibility in the future to have a small portion of his time addressing work on Dissolve.
- TY stated that this would be very welcome, as SS's contributions have been excellent.
- LM also mentioned that in the near future AW would be required to work mostly on SASview in order to push forward critical demands in that project.
