# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 09/07/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 24-27
2. Qt6
3. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 24-27

- Long sprint owing to holidays.
- v0.8 finished and released - some bugs also subsequently found and fixed in v0.8.1.
- Work began on issues tagged for v0.9, including cosmetic features, speed improvements, and the move to Qt6.

## 2. Qt6
- AW stated that while the move to Qt6 had proceeded relatively smoothly, there were some issues on OSX related to clashing library versions (e.g. pcre/pcre2) brought in from the Conan Qt6 packages.
- TY asked which version of the lib Qt6 brings in, and where the other version was coming from.
- AW Stated that the problem was not just limited to the PCRE libraries - unicode text formatting libs as well.
- TY asked whether the project would require its own compilation of Qt6 in order to address these issues.
- AW replied that we could just not use the Conan packages
- TY pondered where else Qt6 packages could be sourced from, and that a homebrew version exists. If we used that, would we still use Conan for Windows/Linux?
- AW stated that his preference would be to go platform specific.
- TY suggested that `aqtinstall` could be used, provided it has the Qt6 packages.
- AW agreed that this was the next best route.

## 3. AOB
- TY noted that a new industrial placement student had just started, and would likely be learning C++ to deliver his project.
- TY suggested that the student could get involved with some small tasks in the Dissolve project, in order to familiarise himself with our  development practices and help get his coding up to speed.
- The team agreed that this was a good idea.
- AM suggested a book to help the student along - "A Tour of C++" by Bjarne Stroustrup. AM stated that the book did not cover any aspect of C++ in complete depth, but served as a very useful learning tool for most core aspects of the language.
