# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 23/07/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 28-29
2. Qt6
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 30-31
4. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 28-29
- Big projects ongoing at present. Coupled with time constraints of the team, there is not a great deal to review from the past sprint.

## 2. Qt6

- TY asked for a status update on the moving of Dissolve from Qt5 to Qt6.
- AW replied that the Windows build is complete and appears to work as expected. Tracking down a persistent OSX error (failure to find QOpenGLWidgets framework library) has been more difficult - maybe an error with `macdeployqt`. Some of the dylibs were linked to the executable dir, some linked to `@rpath` which it failed to find.
- AW also mentioned that Qt5 to Qt6 moved from `qmake` to `cmake`, which may have introduced some inconsistencies.
- TY offered that this kind of bug-hunt was best to perform on a physical OSX machine, rather than in the CI.

[ACTION] TY to attempt debugging of OSX build in Week 30.

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 30-31

- After discussion, it was decided that:
- AW would spend some time going through modernisation work to get rid of some more custom classes.
- AW will also start to look in to applying GPU-based algorithms in specific places in the code, in order to test this path to parallelism. Both TY and AW agreed that the RDF calculation would be the most obvious place to begin.
- TY will continue working around the porous silica handling, implementing features as necessary.
- TY also mentioned that the MPI+threads architecture should not be forgotten, as it needs to be updated following the move of core routines to multithreading.
- Since the move to Qt6 is essentially complete, the team will discuss at a future sprint the best approach in moving from custom graphing to the use of QtChart.

## 4. AOB

- No matters raised.
