# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 06/08/2021 13:45 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 30-31
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 32-33
3. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 30-31
- Following the completion of the move to Qt6, the team are focussing on the extension of capability within the code to satisfy science-drivers, and performing modernisation work.
- It was discovered during the sprint that AppImage packaging was not tested in the PR pipelines, and subsequently that this had become broken in the move to Qt6. AW stated that this had been resolved in #763.
- AW will take over PR #754 which centralises various scripts, since the Qt6 PR has raised a merge conflict.

## 2. Sprint Planning, weeks 32-33

- TY to continue working on science-drivers
- TY stated that a colleague had been given the task of testing recent additions to the code related to porous silica modelling, and that while this was in progress he would focus on to enabling CIF import in the code.
- TY lightly described some of the available libraries that could be used for CIF import, but most are either not actively maintained, out-of-date, or are part of a monolithic package. The amount of critical data that it is necessary to extract from a CIF file is relatively small, but reading / interpreting such files on the fly is not trivial. As such he suggested that a simple ANTLR-based parser could be used to read in the entire file in a tabulated (mapped) form, and which can then be cherry-picked for the relevant data.
- AW agreed that this seemed reasonable, as long as the data extracted from the file is correctly converted and curated as it is parsed.
- AW to focus on investigation of GPU-enabled RDF calculation

## 3. AOB

- TY raised the possibility of gently pushing the move to using QtChart by handing this as a learning exercise to ED, since he will have to learn that for the JournalViewer project. TY suggested focussing on the conversion of a single custom chart (e.g. the pair potentials chart in the ForcefieldTab) to use QtChart.
- AW agreed that this was a reasonable idea.
- AW mentioned that another good learning exercise would be allowing a loop over indices of an Array3D (as noted in his review of #767), rather than having to construct a 3-nested loop over individual x, y, and z axes.
- TY agreed that this algorithm-focussed project would be an excellent task for ED

[ACTION] AW to create suitable issue on GitHub, tag ED, and communicate with him on the matter.
