# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 20/08/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 32-33
2. Parallelisation
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 34-35
3. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 32-33

- Past sprint contains only some onboarding / bugfixing work by ED, and a brief tidy-up PR by TY as the team are working on larger-scale projects that are not yet ready to review.
- ED has a current PR addressing multi-dimensional array iteration.

[ACTION - AW to review and comment on #781]

## 2. Parallelisation

AW gave a brief overview of the current journey towards implementing *CL-based parallelism into Dissolve.

- Original plan to look at parallelisation via SYCL.
- Started looking at Intel's One API SYCL implementation, but decided that since it requires a 3.5 Gb download it would bloat the CI process too much.
- OpenCL is an option, but Apple have deprecated it - current OSX still contains it, but it can disappear at any point in the future.
- Since moved on to hipSYCl (https://github.com/illuhad/hipSYCL), which is also a conforming SYCL implementation, so we can switch to another implementation if required.
- We have proof of concept code that uses hipSYCl for parallelisation, and which has shown significant performance boosts, but at the same time also points to architecture issues - mainly heavy use of indirection via pointers - that may be a limiting factor in any GPU-based para.
- Still fighting to get build with CUDA backend support.

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 34-35

- AW to carry on with SyCL - AW on A/L throughout week 34.
- TY will continue with CIF import. This is a PR with significant scope, so deciding what to (not) include in the present PR has slowed progress down.
- TY stated that Singularity container packaging was almost complete, but he has switched to using OpenSuSE as the base for the container. This should ease the process since TY uses OpenSuSE on his main development box, and knows that all the necessary packages are available at suitably recent versions for Dissolve.

## 4. AOB

- AW suggested that we should consider investigating an architecture change that moves Dissolve away from using vectors of pointers, and towards flat vectors of objects wherever possible. Work on the *CL implementation has highlighted that this may be an issue, and even on a CPU having vectors of solid objects should provide significant benefits.

[ACTION - AW to add issue capturing the work]

- TY noted that we will still need to be able to add / remove molecules dynamically in a simulation, but that a reasonable compromise is to just pay the price for reconstruction of the relevant arrays if necessary.
- AW mentioned a simple technique whereby the integrity of a vector is maintained by simply flagging objects as "active", rather than deleting them.
- TY agreed this would be a reasonable approach and, since the exact simulation to be performed (and hence what level of dynamic molecule management is required) is known, inactive objects could potentially be pre-allocated.
- AW mentioned that nix packaging may be worth investigating again at a point in the future, since there may soon be an option to generate a monolithic binary containing all library dependencies.
- TY agreed.

[ACTION - AW to add issue to revisit nix packaging]
