# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 03/09/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 34-35
2. Singularity Containers
3. SyCL Progress
4. Sprint Planning, weeks 36-37
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 34-35

- TY has submitted several PRs containing bugfix work moving towards release 0.8.3
- PR #795 fixes an issue of pointer / memory management clashes between Qt and the STL, but introduces a raw pointer array which is not ideal.
- ED has submitted a PR addressing multi-dimensional array iteration, which TY has reviewed and highlighted some areas where streamlining can be performed.

[ ACTION - TY to add issue to capture removal of raw pointer array introduced in #795 ]

## 2. Singularity Containers

TY detailed current issues / blockers with Singularity packaging (PR #775):

1. "Native" Ubuntu 20.04 container has a dependency issue, presumably arising from the use of `aqtinstall` to bring in Qt6.
2. OpenSuSE Leap 15.2 container builds on a local machine, but has GLX-related issues when running the GUI.
3. The Leap 15.2 container does not build at all on Azure CI

TY mentioned that the last issue is probably a simple one to solve, and will allow others to trial the Leap 15.2 container in order to fix issue 2.  TY has tagged DN and AW on the PR so that they can help contribute a fix.

- DN asked whether Conda could be an alternative, but was not sure of the support for Conda on IDAaaS.
- AM stated that Conda definitely was an option for IDAaaS.

[ ACTION - TY to invite AM to Dissolve team, and tag on PR #775 ]

## 3. SyCL Progress

- AW reports that he has attempted to compile CUDA code. However, there are issues with calling main memory (which the CUDA code can't do), eventually resulting in a continual memory leak and a segfault.
- Work on flattening arrays needs to be brought forward - will be beneficial for all architectures, not just GPU based.

## 4. Sprint Planning, weeks 36-37

- TY stated that he will be on A/L for week 36.
- TY will work on bringing forward release 0.8.3 once all patches have been incorporated, and finalise the CIF-import work.
- AW will work of SyCL and flattening the `Atom` array to avoid dereferencing.
- AW will review issue #780.
- ED has been tasked with issue #734.

## 5. AOB

No matters arising.
