# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 17/09/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 36-37
2. Singularity Containers
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 38-39
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 36-37

- AW focused on flattening arrays to avoid pointer redirection costs, and has implemented a packed `Atom` array which `Configuration` uses.
- The implementation provides highly encouraging speed factor increases across the benchmark suite of between 0.95 to ~1.5, with the most favourable factors related to energy and force calculation.
- A work in progress, this PR preallocates a million atoms to avoid the `std::vector` being resized and invalidating references/pointers. However AW has a solid plan to solve this issue via the use of a second array on the parent `Molecule`s which stores indices to atoms in the array, and which can be used to refresh pointers as and when the `Atom` vector is modified.
- TY contributed little to this sprint, owing to A/L and the majority of time spent preparing grant application for the project

## 2. Singularity Containers

- TY noted that Singularity containers (current status captured in PR #775) are still blocked because of various issues, and require second and third opinions from the team.

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 38-39

- AW to review array indexing PR #792 - ED to implement.
- AW to continue with packed atom array work, with intent to complete by week end 38.
- AW on A/L week 39.

## 4. AOB

- AM noted that he would be unable to attend the next TSC.
