# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 22/10/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 40-42
2. Nix build
3. QtChart
4. Restart Files
5. Sprint Planning, weeks 43-44
6. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 40-42

- TY apologised for the lapse in structure and frequency of the sprint and TSC meetings over the past month.
- Lots of small / large bugfixes pushed and merged over the sprint period, including two releases covering major improvements and bug fixes.
- TY noted that one such bug (#823) dated back to July 2020 and was missed due to lack of coverage in the test suite as well as low user engagement at the time. The severe effects of this bug, however, were preferable to the notion that the overall methodology was failing for one particular user's system.
- AW suggested the possible use of Weggli, whieh allows searching of parsed C++ code, e.g. to find every time a for loop is written with an `auto` for the loop variable which is neither `const` nor a reference. He noted that it was not a perfect solution, but could prove useful for the project.

## 2. Nix Containers

- AW noted that the PR (#807) was out of draft and up for review, with just a few small things left to fix.
- The PR pipeline is modified to be a 2-stage pipeline: the first runs code quality checks as before, while the second has additional jobs to build release binaries for command line, MPI, and GUI versions, all pseudo-statically linked, and produces a Docker image for each. System and unit tests are then run on the three.
- There are no changes to the continuous or release pipelines yet, until the PR pipeline changes have been reviewed and approved.
- TY mentioned a conversation he had had earlier in the day with the IDAaaS team, who are moving to a private Docker repository for packages.

## 3. QtChart
- TY highlighted several issues with QChart as discovered by implementation by JS in the GudPy project (using PySide6).
- Principal among these are the inability to natively add error bars to plots, with the secondary issue that log axes do not seem to be well-implemented. As such, moving Dissolve to use QChart may not be the best approach.
- TY suggested that future minor versions of Qt6 may implement this functionality, so could "wait it out".
- AW noted that error bars were not available in Qt5 either, so pinning hopes on a future implementation may be unwise.
- DN suggested the use of QCustomPlot, which will be investigated as a viable (2D-only) solution.

## 4. Restart Files
- TY brought up the format of the restart file, which is currently a monolithic text file, and noted that AW mentioned this very issue in a preliminary meeting when he joined the project.
- TY craved more structure in Dissolve's main output file, and queried whether XML could be the way forward.
- Both DN and AW agreed that JSon or TOML formats may be the better route forward, offering a simpler dictionary-style schema to  XML, without the parsing complexity associated with XML.
- AW noted that this will break compatibility with all restart files to this point - TY noted that he was happy for this to move forward and be a goal for the 1.0 release milestone.

[ACTION] - TY to check / amend / add issue as necessary.

## 5. Sprint 43-44
- AW to finalise PR #807 (Nix packaging)
- AW to revisit final removal of `List` and `ListItem`.
- TY to work through current pile of user-highlighted bugs and small issues, and refocus back to CIF / MOF / Bragg handling to meet demand of the user community.

## 6. AOB
- None arising.
