# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 11/05/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 43-44
2. (Not) QtChart
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 45-46
4. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 43-44
- Nix Packaging (#807) - Complete
- Final removal of `List` and `ListItem` - GUI charts done (AW), `ProcedureNode`s in progress by AW, keywords by TY.
- New features added (TY) - better methods for `AtomType` and term assignment to `Species` in the GUI.
- Array index iterator (ED) - complete.
- Release 0.8.6 pushed fixing MD bug (TY).
- TY mentioned that keyword modernisation is in progress, but still has some significant issues to deal with (general setting/getting, widget integration, testing).
- TY noted that he had returned to, and made progress on, CIF import relevant to simulation of supercells of MOFs, but this had highlighted performance issues with the current `Species` class. Specifically, this is due to `SpeciesAtom` being stored on a `std::list`. TY has a working branch where this has been moved to `std::vector`, but which needs some more adjustments to finalise the PR.

## 2. (Not) QtChart
- TY stated that, while `QCustomPlot` had been suggested as a suitable 2D alternative to QtChart, it is currently Qt5 only.
- TY suggested that a viable route forward may be to rewrite / refactor current charting capability, leveraging Qt6 "features" (particularly for text rendering) in order to remove FTGL/Freetype dependencies.
- After questioning from AW, TY clarified that the intention here would be to move the current graphing/visualisation from `QOpenGLWidget` on to Qt3D, providing a single solution for 2D and 3D plotting as is presently implemented.

## 3. Sprint 45-46
- AW to work on generating SIF - work has begun already, but there are issues with pipelines at present.
- AW to contact AL when suitable containers are ready to be pushed to the IDAaaS repository.
- Docker images for current release branch - 0.8.X. Once Singularity containers have been generated in the CI, the relevant commits can be cherry-picked in order to allow updated release versions to appear on IDAaaS.
- TY to continue keyword modernisation (lower priority)
- TY to finalise moving `SpeciesAtom` to `std::vector`.
- TY to address bug fixes highlighted by user stories for 0.8.X.
- AW may move on to `RefList` removal if time permits.

## 4. AOB
- TY noted that the dates of the Hackathon@DL would be November 29th thru December 1st. Participation is by invite only (Team Dissolve will participate remotely) but lectures will be streamed. Details to be sent once received from DL.
