# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 19/11/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)
- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 45-46
2. Sprint Planning, weeks 47-48
3. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 45-46
- Removal of old `List` and `ListItem` work is complete, pending review and merge of `ProcedureNode` work (#876).
- Keyword modernisation is complete, pending review and merge of final tidy-up PR (#865).
- `SpeciesAtom`s have been moved from `std::list` to `std::vector`.
- Singularity images are now generated from the CI pipelines.
- Several critical bugs found and squashed (new releases brought forward up to 0.8.8).
- Creation of `Species` by importing a CIF file completed and merged, and several other `Species`-related features were added.
- TY noted that this was an excellent body of work to have completed in one sprint, with a good balance of modernisation, bugfixing, and feature implementation.

## 2. Sprint 47-48
- Focus is now on the issues list for the 0.9.0 milestone, following merge of outstanding PRs from the previous sprint.
- AW noted at least one bug related to `ProcedureNode`s, noted during work on #876. AW to create issue and self-assign.
- TY is mid-way through a small series of PRs which improve the layout of the `LayerTab`; specifically, the `ModuleChart` and associated classes is being replaced with a `QListView` and relevant item model. As part of this, removal of `Module` master instances will be performed, following addressing of some issues with throwing `std::unique_ptr` around the place, and will also likely cover tidying of `Module` source code files.

## 3. AOB
- None arising.
