# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Thursday 25th January 2024, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

### Agenda

1. Project Direction, January 24
2. Version 1.5
3. Strict Milestoning of PRs
4. AOB

## 1. Project Direction, December 23

- Release Planning: Version 1.4 was released on 12th January 2024 after being slightly delayed due to a critical bug being found in the Add Forcefield Wizard.

## 2. Version 1.5

Discussion of major work for inclusion into version 1.5:
- Move all analysis modules off of the old framework into the "developer-friendly" system illustrated by the refactored Q-Species module (#1747). (TY)
- Multi-configuration EPSR (DB).
- Due to the potential impact of refactoring all analysis modules, including the likely gains in efficiency, this is reasoned to be plenty for the next release.

## 3. Aspects of CI/CD

Several discussion points around our CI/CD workflows were raised.

### Strict Milestoning of PRs

In order to make generation of release notes less of a headache it is suggested that each PR must be associated to a milestone. The CI will fail for any PR which is not associated to a milestone, preventing merging.

### Automatic Generation of Release Notes

Following on from "strict milestoning", AW mentioned the possibility of using git-cliff (https://git-cliff.org/) in order to manage and automate generation of release notes / changelogs. This would involve the team adopting a specific naming policy for their PRs, and in principle this was agreed to be a valid thing to at least trial, but some comments were made on how enforcible this policy would be given that, since we adopt squash-merging, the PR title can be changed immediately prior to merging. There is no real problem if we assume that all of Team Dissolve are willing to adhere to the scheme, but it is worth a check of the GitHub API documentation to see if there are ways to help enforce it.

### Parallel Quality Control

NS had previously suggested that the Quality Control stage run in parallel to the build stages, rather than acting as a blocker in the case of it failing. The team agreed that this was a sensible modification.

## 4. AOB

- TY suggested that, due the increasing variance in people's calendars it is prudent to schedule TSCs only one month in advance, with the date of the next meeting to be discussed at the end of the forerunner TSC.

- Next TSC scheduled for Thursday 29th February, 14:00.
