# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 22nd March 2024, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Project Direction, March 24
2. git-cliff
3. AOB

## 1. Project Direction, March 24

- RB and AW fought several battles with transferring parts of the GUI to QML, but ultimately succeeded.
- RB will look into threading of the newly-refactored analysis modules.
- AW investigations into GPU-ready progressed a little, but time was spent mostly on other items.
- AW presented several automated changelog solutions involving `git-cliff`, and which were discussed in 2).
- AW made a significant performance boost to various calculations in the code (significantly the RDF) through refactoring our combinations class.
- TY working towards the implementation of pair potential overrides which will bring further parity with the functionality present in the original EPSR code.
- JS has completed refactoring all analysis modules into the new framework, and has moved on to the captured follow-on issues.
- JS will also investigate implementation of suitable graph (edge/node) representation of new workflows in QML as a separate work item.
DB modules 
- TY implemented molecule similarity / copy recognition in the `CIFHandler`, providing a working solution to simulating molecular crystal.

## 2. git-cliff

AW presented various options for restructuring the project on GitHub in order to allow automated changelog generation for releases, which would remove a significant burden from the development team.
The team assessed various options AW presented for overcoming the limitations of `git-cliff` which assumes that all valid changes are present in a single linear history. At present, Dissolve maintains
a `develop` branch from which release branches are periodically spawned. Patches to releases are made on the release branch itself and cherry-picked back into `develop` (or vice-versa). Applying `git-cliff`
to such an organisation would result in duplicate information with generated changelogs and poor definition of ownership of changes between minor / major releases.

It was decided that a single `release` branch is to be created and will contain a linear history of releases moving forward. Patches will be made in the same way, and minor / major releases will be created by simply merging the current `develop` branch on to `release`. For most cases, duplicate commits (and hence entries in changelogs) will likely not occur if `git`s default behaviour of ignoring empty commits is presumed. While not a perfect solution, it creates the least amount of additional work to implement, and should work cleanly for the majority of the time.

AW will create the `release` branch and backfill to 1.4.0 so that when 1.5 is release ahead of the Disordeder Materials UGM and Workshop in April the changelog will correctly reflect differences.

## 3. AOB

- Next TSC scheduled for Friday 26th April, 14:00.
