# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 26th April 2024, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Project Direction, April 24
2. GPU Strategy
3. DM Workshop Summary
4. QML UI
5. One Year Plan
6. AOB

## 1. Project Direction, April 24

- TY put forward a stack of PRs refactoring the way pair potentials are constructed, moving this to the updated `Function1D` class. This enables reference and overlay pair potentials to be added in a harmonius and consistent way. This work also makes an effort to clarify forces vs derivatives for the interatomic forces.
- AW put a large amount of effort into the implementation of a release workflow based on `git-cliff`. However this was not moved into production for the 1.5 release due to the unnececessary amount of additional chore this would create. It was decided that `git-cliff`-driven releases would be the norm starting from v1.6.
- RB worked on threaded parallelisation strategies for core analysis modules.
- DB put the finishing touches to the suite of analysis modules he is responsible for.

## 2. GPU Strategy

- AW ran into issues with GPU parallelisation - SyCl is a standard, but needs a lib that implements the standard. INtel pushes OneAPI, there's the open source AdaptiveCPP (previously HipSyCL) etc. Initially began with AdaptiveCPP because it was in nix, and good progress was made. Have to use the designated compiler, but that's the same for all implementations. The ugly part, however, is that neither are available via conan, causing headaches all round. However, OpenAPI has Windows and OSX support which AdaptiveCPP. 
- Moving forward, perhaps the best option is to use the OpenSyCL wrappers for STL algorithms. As a result Dissolve would need to add some ugly macros enabling switching between that and AdaptiveCPP.  Still have a single codebase, we would just be switching between libraries.
- Alternative option 1 is to forget Windows and OSX (see Workshop info)
- Alternative option 2 is to move to OpenCL, but would require significant refactoring.
- AW to put in decision document detailing choice to stay with OpenSyCL for the immediate future.

## 3. DM Workshop Summary

- TY reported that Dissolve received a lot of attention at the recent Disordered Materials UGM, prevailing over many of the presentations by the user community.
- At the workshop itself it was discovered that both the Windows and OSX packages were completely broken, and had to have been for some time. An IDAaaS workshop reservation had been put into place so we were able to sucessfully run the workshop.
- Very few bug reports came back through using Dissolve, but one consistent comment was that visualisation was either bad, broken, not great, unintuitive, or lacking in places.

## 4. QML UI

- TY has been looking in to QML in more detail, and suggested that it may be an easier transition to QML if we start from the basic core of a new theme specific to Dissolve, rather than gradually refactor the existing GUI from the inside out, creating a mix of widget/QML elements.
- Arguably, this new pure QML UI can be constructed as a living feature of the main branch, rather than a completely separate branch, conditionally compiling it over the existing GUI when requested.
- This also allows us to capitalise on the model work performed by JS in his investigations into "Worflow 2.0" for Dissolve.
- TY has had some early success in the theming of a custom Dissolve look-and-feel (dark mode, obvs) and is now tackling the issue of incorporating Qt3D/QQuick3D to enable Visualisation 2.0.

## 5. One Year Plan

- Following the success of, and the feedback from, the recent UGM, TY proposed an ambitious one-year plan for the Team.
- This would involve being at v2.0 in early 2025, encompassing a full move to TOML, completely new UI, and overhauled visualisation.
- This would put Dissolve into an excellent position ahead of the next DM UGM and Workshop, provisionally slated for June 2025.

## 6. AOB

- Next TSC scheduled for Friday 31st May 2024.
