# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 31st May 2024, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)

### Apologies

- Daniel Nixon (DN)

### Agenda

1. Project Direction, May 24
2. QML & Visualisation
3. AOB

## 1. Project Direction, May 24

- TY generated a stack of PRs refactoring the `PairPotential` class with a view to implementing artificial atoms (#1900) as a next step.
- TY, RB, and AW started on a full, ground-up redesign of the GUI in QML, working from a custom theme as the base. Significant effort is being put into assessing how the 2D/3D graphing and visualisation is to be tackled, since integration of the existing "plot" code (based on Qt3D) ran into several blockers.
- AW and RB put significant effort into illustrating threaded parallelisation of a core analysis routine (SiteRDF) but ran into several as-yet-unsolved issues which meant that the expected improvements in efficiency could not be realised.
- DB and TY implemented Buckingham and Gaussian-form interaction potentials.

## 2. QML & Visualisation

AW presented a proof-of-principle 2D plotting code based on QtQuick3D, showing simple line plotting (with line width control), dynamic updating, axis tickmarks, and the fact that this 2D plot lived naturally inside a 3D space. This provides a great deal of positive evidence that a suitable visualisation framework can be constructed for use in the full QML GUI. Whilst it is unfortunate that the effort spent on the existing "plot" visualisation code (based on Qt3D) looks destined to be wasted, it is hoped that at the least it demonstrated some useful principles and design ideas that can be incorporated into the new QtQuick3D-based code moving forward.

## 3. AOB

- Next TSC scheduled for Friday 28th June 2024.
