# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 20th January 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

### Agenda

1. Team Update
2. Release 1.0 Requirements
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 4-5
4. IDAaaS Development Environment
5. AOB

## 1. Team Update

- Daniel Bradley, PhD at Nottingham with Emma Barney, has now joined the team and completed his first PR #1292 dealing with #1241 (Consistent use of if/switch in GUI models).
- TY noted that ISIS Summer Students applications have been approved en masse, but is awaiting confirmation from HR. This student will focus on the `plot` project and its integration with Dissolve.
- Bindu Kolli, current developer on the ALC MuSSIC project will begin to investigate implementation of coarse-grained scattering calculations into Dissolve, based on her current Fortran code.

## 2. Release 1.0 Requirements

- TY revisited the existing milestone for v1.0 (https://github.com/disorderedmaterials/dissolve/milestone/7) and removed several issues that were not relevant or will not / cannot be included in v1.0 due to the significant effort required (e.g. #1091 Reorganise / reinvent AddForcefieldTermsDialog).
- Documentation needs to be updated following all recent changes.
- TOML implementation needs finalising (old issues present in Milestone 1.0 can be closed)
- TY asked about the scope of TOML work left to do, to which AW replied that there are some bugfixes left to do, after which there will be a functional / working TOML import / export.
- Aside from this, AW stated that several other things remain to be addressed - 1) adding a CLI option to convert standard input to TOML. 2) Adjust file reading to detect between old-style and TOML-style files automatically. 3) Put in groundwork infrastructure for handling version upgrades.
- The team then discussed the mechanism by which version-handling would be implemented. AW suggested conversion functions that would convert TOML between two versions, and which could be sequentially applied in order to bring old files up to the latest version.
- AW suggested that we should also retain old input file format versions and leverage these in the testing framework.
- The team also discussed how versioning of TOML input files should proceed - i.e. whether those versions should be tied to the code version, or be separate. TY favoured separating the versions from each other since a given minor/patch release may not alter the content/format of the TOML, and so incrementing the version in such cases would be unnecessary/misleading.

Actions:
- AW to update / close TOML-related issues for Milestone 1.0 as appropriate.
- AW to capture final TOML work as issues to be handled for v1.0.

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 4-5

- DB to work on #1274 (Interpolation over whole array) with AW, treating it as a worked example through benchmarking a simple implementation, and then following this with optimisation work.
- DB to follow on with #1268 (Reverse index ordering in Array3D) or #1092 (Extraneous) in preparation for v1.0.
- AW to focus on TOML for v1.0.
- TY to focus on documentation updates and #1161 (Separation / sub-grouping of control keywords) in preparation for v1.0.

## 4. IDAaaS Development Environment

- The team had previously discussed during stand-ups the possibility of having an IDAaaS-based development environment in order to make onboarding new (short term) team members much more efficient, and allow general community contribution to the code.
- TY discussed this with IDAaaS team and was pointed to the development environment at dev.analysis.stfc.ac.uk which could serve exactly this purpose.
- After a day of effort TY found that building the necessary dependencies (principally Qt6) via Conan (for the JournalViewer2 project) was not possible on IDAaaS/CentOS7 due to an obscure error with the compilation of HarfBuzz/4.4.1.
- TY then tried to build Qt6 from source, which proceeded without incident, but did not result in the generation of the XCB platform plugin due to misconfiguration / missing libraries.

Actions:
- AW to attempt nix-magic.

## 5. AOB

- Following changes in the structure of the SSE group, TY suggested that Franz Lang (FL) may be more appropriate for the TSC, replacing AM.

Actions:
- TY to discuss with FL.
