# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 3rd February 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)

#### Apologies

- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 4-5
2. Release 1.0 Status
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 6-7 
4. Discussion - CMake Presets
5. AOB

## 1. Spring Review, weeks 4-5

- AW / DB completed #1274 (Interpolation over whole array).
- DB completed #1092 (Extraneous parameters) for v1.0.
- AW / DB completed #1268 (Reverse index ordering in Array3D).
- TY completed #1161 (Separation / sub-grouping of control keywords) for v1.0.
- AW TOML progressed to being almost ready for inclusion in 0.9.X.
- TY to focus on documentation updates and #1161 (Separation / sub-grouping of control keywords) in preparation for v1.0.

## 2. Release 1.0 Status

- Milestone for v1.0 (https://github.com/disorderedmaterials/dissolve/milestone/7)
- The team looked through the list of outstanding issues and elected to move all TOML-related work to v1.1, with TOML-only input files to be the norm from v2.0.
- AW noted that v2.0 would not be so far into the future if we adhere to more strict use of semantic versioning - bugfixes only in patches, new features or functionality in minor versions, and breaking changes into major versions (with TOML falling into this category).
- TY admitted his guilt concerning improper use of semantic versioning, and vowed to be more consistent in future. 
- Thus, only small fixes and documentation jobs remain for v1.0, which are either the subject of current PRs or are assigned to TY.

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 6-7

- TY to address outstanding issues and documentation for v1.0.
- TY to continue to finalise GitHub Actions.
- AW to return to updating the Add Forcefield Wizard (#1091).
- DB to handle #1246 (Use of Optional-based keywords).
- DB to start work on implementing histogrammed coordination number calculation (captured in #608)

## 4. Discussion - CMake Presets

- AW uses cmake presets for personal builds, and suggested their utility for Dissolve
- AW noted that they would be especially helpful in onboarding, particularly for Windows users.

Action: AW to add issue capturing work and provide initial suggeseted settings for discussion & refinement.

## 5. AOB

- AW or TY still need to test nix-magic on IDAaaS development machines
- AW  noted that he would be out for three days of week 6 due to training and other work commitments.
