# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 17th February 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)

#### Apologies

- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 6-7
2. Release 1.0 Status
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 4-5
4. AOB

## 1. Spring Review, weeks 6-7

- TY made a significant update to the documentation for v1.0, including reorganising the deployment. Documentation will now be deployed to the docs.projectdissolve.com subdomain, with up to three versions available at once (i.e. continuous, release, and previous release). This will allow updating the documentation for new features possible to do at the point of the feature inclusion, rather thn scheduling it for a particular release.
- TY finally closed #1312 (Nix cache handling) with apparent success in the CI since then.
- TY made a few small bugfixes - #1322 (Duplicate Restartable Keywords), #1321 (Windows Test Fix), and #1318 (No Fluctuation Smoothing).
- AW has basically started rewriting the Add Forcefield Wizard (#1091) from scratch, with excellent progress to date including the ability now for much better unit testing.
- AW also implemented #1316 closing #1268 (Two Element Overload).
- TY worked towards #1097 (Specifying Parameters in Built-In Forcefields) and which is 80% complete.
- DB finished #1246 (Use of Optional-based keywords) and began work on #1297 (OptionalInt Exception Handling).
- DB also began looking into #1309 (Calculation Modules assume intermolecular interactions) via a draft PR by TY (#1320).

## 2. Release 1.0 Status
- Only documentation and two minor bugfixes remain, and release 1.0 should be completed well within the next sprint.
- TY noted that the actual release of v1.0 will not happen until the ISIS Neutron Training Course has passed, and for which the current v0.9.X version of Dissolve will be used.

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 8-9
- TY to finish #1221 (Docs 1.0), complete #1097, and address #1244 (Saving under a new simulation name still writes to old restart file).
- DB to complete #1297 and continue work on implementation of intramolecular calculation modules.
- AW to continue work on #1091.

## 5. AOB

- AW tested the use of nix on IDAaaS but ran into the traditional Qt compilation problems.

Action: AW to try out new Rocky8 development machines on IDAaaS.

