# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 3rd August 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 30-31
2. Staff Update
3. Release Update
4. Sprint Planning, weeks 32-33
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 30-31

- AW made great progress with failing TOML tests, and following some critical bugfixes in several PRS there are just 13 remaining.
- AW completed QML-based add forcefield wizard / Dissolve QML widgets (#1363). NEEDS REVIEW
- DB continued work on implementing Q species, building on coordination number histograms. This required effort from TY to add functionality to the existing `SelectProcedureNode` class in order to permit the calculation to be performed (PR #1608).
- JS and TY having ongoing discussions regarging implementation of Control Layers (#88) with a view to implementing the necessary core classes / functionality without affecting the current standard workflow (PRs 1595, 
- JS refactored molecular CIF handling (#276) - remedial work ongoing.
- NS completed draft work on range-based error calculation PR #1585 is under review, and made various small QOL improvements and fixes.
- TY addressed bugs and documentation issues discovered during XPDF workshop
- TY made some significant GUI modifications covering more flexibile (re)sizing of the main window as well as overhauling most of the icons used.
- TY attempted a "nice" implementation of parallel region generation (#1618).

## 2. Staff Update

- Jounaid Ruhomaun (JR) joined the team for six months with a preliminary goal of implementing two-way DL_POLY_5 I/O.
- AW mentioned that additional resource from RSE would be available later in the year - suggestion to work on QML refactoring of main dialogs in the code (agreed by all).

## 3. Release Update

- v1.3.2 was released on 3rd August and fixed a handful of bugs as well as adding in many QOL and UX improvements.
- v1.3.3 will likely come out in week 32, with a couple more moderate bugfixes / improvements.
- v1.4 (when ready) is slated to contain: Orientational SDF Module (#1455), Q-species module (#1584), EPSR error ranges (#1585) and dataset weighting (#1568), and basic molecular CIF handling (#1607)

## 4. Sprint Planning, weeks 32-33

- AW to continue on TOML.
- DB to continue with Q-species, determining new infrastructure required and helping to implement as necessary.
- JS to continue work on control layers and molecular CIF handling.
- NS to continue work on applying error ranges to general data comparison.
- JR working on minor issues to get up to speed.
- TY to finish oriented SDFs and contribute to other issues as necessary.

## 5. AOB

- AW noted that the RSE group may purchase a 24 core M1 Masc for use as a local GitHub runner, and which would be useful for running our unit tests on (we currently only do this on Linux).
- AW brought up the (lack of) updates to our Changelog, and suggested that we may want to consider using it for its intended purpose. TY noted that, provided the team keep on top of adding issues / PRs to relevant milestones in GitHub, writing release notes is not too onerous, and these could be be reformatted as a changelog entry and added to our automated PR-on-release workflow to change externally-visible version numbers.
