# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 3rd March 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 8-9
2. Release 1.0 Status
3. Singularity / Apptainer / IDAaaS
4. Conan2
5. Sprint Planning, weeks 10-11
6. Staffing
7. AOB

## 1. Spring Review, weeks 8-9

- TY completed #1097 (Specifying Parameters in Built-In Forcefields), #1221 (Docs 1.0), and #1244 (Saving under a new simulation name still writes to old restart file).
- DB completed #1297 (OptionalInt Exception Handling).
- TY mostly completed a PR covering the addition of an `IntraDistance` module, but not in time for the end of the sprint. As a knock-on effect, DB could not complete his angle version of the same.
- AW continued work towards #1091 (Add Forcefield Wizard). AW happy with progress - not at stage where old functionality has been refactored, and new functionality / features have started to be implemented.
- TY made many reactive fixes to CI discovered while releasing v1.0.

## 2. Release 1.0 Status
- Cancellation of the TSC meant that release 1.0 could go ahead during week 9, earlier than planned.
- Release 1.0 is now out on the website and on IDAaaS. For the latter an additional installation of the legacy (0.9.X) version was requested and subsequently implemented by the IDAaaS support team (thanks Adam Laverack).
- Versioning of the application menu items on IDAaaS is now a more urgent requirement, but dynamically extracting these requires some effort (see next item).

## 3. Singularity / Apptainer / IDAaaS
- Singularity is no longer being updated in its current form, so IDAaaS team have moved to Apptainer.
- IDAaaS team recommended to use `%labels` in our singularity images to store the code version, and which can then easily be extracted when the images are pulled into IDAaaS environments.

## 4. Conan2
- Conan has moved to version 2, but this appears to break most of our builds due to recipes failing for a variety of reasons.
- TY has created a PR #1339 which moves us (back to) Conan2 for cursory inspection by the team.
- For now, Dissolve is locked to Conan v1.58 until issues surrounding Conan2 are resolved.

## 5. Sprint Planning, weeks 10-11
- DB to continue work on implementation of intramolecular calculation modules.
- AW to continue work on #1091.

## 6. Staffing
- The posting for the Qt3D summer student placement (or relevance to Dissolve) is ending on 5th March, and at present only three candidates (two of which are not relevant applicants for the position) have applied.  An extension to the recruitment campaign may be a good choice.
- TY has had approval to advertise for a graduate summer student for June-September to work on Dissolve.
- TY et al. to talk to ALC about additional effort towards Dissolve development in the context of larger scale simulations of polymers.

## 7. AOB
- No matters arising.
