# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 17th March 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 10-11
2. QML
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 12-13
4. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 10-11
- TY completed #1320 (Intramolecular distance module) pending review.
- DB completed #1329 (Intramolecular angle module) pending review.
- AW produced working prototype of new Add Forcefield Wizard (#1091) in QML.

## 2. QML
- AW presented an overview of the QML work in #1363 (Add forcefield terms overhaul) and extolled the benefits of using QML over the traditional UI files.
- AW noted several significant advantages of the QML approach, primarily their clear "human-readable" form making them easier to review, the separation of business from frontend logic, and the ability to dynamically load in QML files while testing, removing the need for constant recompilation (as is the case for UI files).
- It was agreed that a QML-based GUI is the way forward, but that this should be done incrementally rather than all at once.
- The team decided that, should parts of the GUI which required significant editing of UI files be encountered, this would be moved to QML.
- TY requested a small "toy" or tutorial example of moving a current Dissolve UI element over to QML, so as to promote understanding of the process.

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 12-13
- TY/DB to start work on new (histogrammed) CoordinationNumber module.
- TY to investigate ongoing EPSR issues and find fix.
- TY to begin work on either additional energy terms or NETA-focussed site selection.
- AW to finalise #1363.

## 4. AOB
- No matters arising.
