# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 14th April 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 
2. CMake Presets
3. IDAaaS / Nix
4. SCARF Installation
5. Sprint Planning, weeks 10-11
6. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 12-15

- AW spent the majority of the reporting period on creating Nix-based development environments suitable for IDAaaS - this is of critical importance when onboarding new starters on short-term contracts (as is the case later in 2023) and will greatly reduce "barrier to contribution". Furthermore, it will allow the JV2 project to be fixed in-place on the IDAaaS platform.
- TY fixed a handful of small issues, and resolved (he thinks...) ongoing issues with EPSR "low-Q drift" resulting in separation of systems or the formation of unwanted voids.
- TY pushed a patch release (1.1.1) containing all of these fixes except the one for EPSR, which is currently the focus of user testing in the community.
- TY made headway towards #1398 Energy Overlays by overhauling existing energy and force kernel code, making it suitable for extension.
- DB completed work on #1368 Expressions as Quantities, setting up work on #1368 Access to rich node data in procedures.

## 2. CMake Presets

- AW discussed the sensible move to using CMake presets in Dissolve, removing the need for long build commands for users and developers alike.
- The team decided that presets for "gui-release" (building just the GUI), "gui" (building the GUI, unit tests, and benchmarks), "cli-release" and "cli" following in a similar spirit to the GUI analogues, "mpi", and "scarf" would be required.

## 3. IDAaaS / Nix

- AW reported that his work on a nix-based development environment suitable for IDAaaS was nearing completion.
- Latest tests showed that ongoing issues with Qt cached / compiled versions had been fixed.
- AW noted that some wrapper scripting will be required to resolved OpenGL / Gnome.

## 4. SCARF Installation

- TY stated that, by his own hand, the SCARF version of Dissolve had become rather outdated (0.9.6).
- TY is in the process of manually installing the legacy, current, and continuous releases on the platform, but noted that he was in discussions with Jon Roddom regarding automation using EasyBuild or similar. Jon Roddom may use Dissolve as an early test case for their general work towards the same goal.

## 5. Sprint Planning, weeks 16-17
- AW to complete Nix work
- AW to continue work on #1091 Add Forcefield Wizard (time permitting)
- DB to work on #1368 once TY has created a template solution for review / approval by the team.
- TY to finish work towards #1398 and pass on to DB / AW once the basic structure is in place.

## 6. AOB
- No matters arising.
