# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 28th April 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 16-17
2. TOML
3. MPI
4. Staffing Update
5. Sprint Planning, weeks 18-19
6. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 16-17

Verbatim From Previous Sprint:
- AW to complete Nix work
- AW to continue work on #1091 Add Forcefield Wizard (time permitting)
- DB to work on #1368 once TY has created a template solution for review / approval by the team.
- TY to finish work towards #1398 and pass on to DB / AW once the basic structure is in place.

## 2. TOML

- TY brought up TOML for discussion, since there are lots of current and planned works that will require changes / additions to the TOML parsing we currently have. Rather than leave this all to sort out in one push "when we're ready for TOML", should we consider working it up and incorporating it sooner rather than later so it can evolve with the rest of the changes? We would still of course use the txt input files until version 2.0.

## 3. MPI

- TY has reservations about the current usage of MPI in the code. Several routines are parallelised such that large systems can be run over multiple enclosure / multiple core architectures (e.g. SCARF, ARCHER etc.) but in a cloud-based multithreaded world is this really worth supporting in its current form moving forward? There are definitely reasons to have MPI, but to me these feel better used in a task-farming context - for instance, when multiple independent simulations need to be run as part of a structure search, etc. - so as much more of a distributed task sense than running a single job across multiple enclosures.
- While doing work on the energy and force kernel updates it is clear that a lot of further tidying can be performed if we remove MPI support as we currently have it.

## 4. Staffing Update

## 5. Sprint Planning, weeks 18-19

## 6. AOB
