# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 26th May 2023, 11:30 - 12:00
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 18-21
2. Staff Plan
3. Release Planning
4. Sprint Planning, weeks 22-23
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 18-21

- AW completed work on the overhaul of the Add Forcefield Wizard - TY yet to test.
- AW began work on merging TOML work into the main stream.
- DB started new work on pure integer histograms, a necessary piece of work discovered while implementing the CN histogram module.
- TY completed work on implementing energy overlays - first PR introducing true functionality into the code (#1433) adds the ability for point restraints (#66!).

## 2. Staff Plan

- JS will start work on 5th June.
- Address triplet iterator issue (#1426)
- Work with science collaborators on introducing necessary functionality (potentials, workflows, forcefields etc.) for porous materials modelling.

## 3. Release Planning

- 1.2.0 will encompass Energy Overlays / restraints when complete.

## 4. Sprint Planning, weeks 22-23

- TY to test new Add Forcefield Wizard and update existing examples to suit.
- AW to focus on TOML merge.
- DB to continue integer histog & CN work.
- TY to work on adding cylindrical potentials for porous materials modelling.
- TY to work on CIF import issues, possibly extending this to handling fractional occupancies.

## 5. AOB

- TY questioned whether Franz Lang (FL) would be taking over AM's role on the TSC - AW to talk to FL at their next stand-up.
- No matters arising.
