# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 23rd June 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 24-25
2. Release Update
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 26-27
4. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 24-25

- TY tested new Add Forcefield Wizard - functionality looks great. However, QtQuick controls look fairly poor on local system and needs investigating.
- AW completed significant work in rebasing TOML branch ready for review.
- DB progressed pure integer histogram class to completion, pending review.
- TY addressed some low-level issues in the form of node contexts (PR #1462), laying down work ahead of Orientational Constraints on SDFs (#1455)
- JS addressed a handful of charge-related issues and enhancements (PRs #1450 and #1464) and has made significant progress in implementing fragment site generation (PR #1461 merged, #1465 and #1467 up for review.
- JS completed work on Array3D iterators and began work on implementing LJ global potentials.

## 2. Release Update

- v1.2 Released Thursday 22nd June.

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 26-27

- AW to review new Add FOrcefield wizard with view to inclusion in 1.3 release.
- DB to leverage integer histogram work into coordination number module.
- TY to create new x-ray specific examples for upcoming Diamond XPDF workshop (18th July), implement bugfixes & QOL improvements as discovered.
- JS to complete Fragment-based Site generation and apply to specific scientific issue (ring rotation in MOFs).
- JS to move on to molecular CIF handling.

## 4. AOB

- AW on A/L week 27.
- No matters arising.
