# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 9th June 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 22-23
2. Release Update
3. Sprint Planning, weeks 24-25
4. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 22-23

- TY *still* yet to test. Will be bumped to release 1.3.
- AW made excellent progress on bringing the TOML branch in line with the main stream - this has included identification and handling of previously-unidentified bugs.
- DB progressed will with work on the pure integer histograms.
- TY made only a minor contribution due to other work committments, but pushed up a PR allowing regions to be generated from expressions (#1419).
- JS is addressing the Array3D iterator (#1426), fixed a GUI usability issue in #1360, and began working on #1446 (Copy AtomType charges to species).

## 2. Release Update

- Two PRs (#1440 and #1445) up for review.
- Final issue #1430 (XRay Implementation) to be addressed next sprint (TY)

## 3. Sprint Planning, weeks 24-25

- TY to finally test new Add Forcefield Wizard and update existing examples to suit.
- AW to continue TOML merge with intent to complete.
- DB to complete integer histogram.
- TY to work on adding cylindrical potentials for porous materials modelling (with JS).
- TY to address #1430 (XRay Implementation)
- JS to begin addressing Fragment-based Site generation with a view to moving on to molecular CIF handling afterwards.

## 4. AOB

- No matters arising.
