# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 13th October 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)

#### Apologies

- Daniel Nixon (DN)

### Agenda

1. TSC Direction
2. Project Direction, October 23

## 1. TSC Direction

- TY suggested that the TSC meetings were both a bit frequent (currently fortnightly) and a bit "heavy" for what the project currently requires. While the team is currently 4 - 5 people, maintaining a relatively detailed sprint review / sprint plan feels a lot like overkill, particularly given the state of the code at present which could be described as "just working, and waiting for new features".
- AW agreed that we could move to a monthly schedule, and just focus on the overall direction of the project, discussing specifics as necessary.


## 2. Project Direction, October 23

- Codebase: TOML testing is still a priority for the project, and full TOML integration is nearing completion.
- Codebase: AW noted that we are currently several C++ std versions behind, and should consider a move to C++20 in the near future. TY agreed.
- CI: TY to revisit move to Conan 2.0, or at least upgrade our now heavily outdated version requirement for TBB.
- Codebase: General parallelism within the code to be revisited once TOML work is complete.
- Science: Multi-configuration fitting is a next high priority for the code (DB and TY to work on)
- Staff: New RSE staff, Rob Buchanan, joining the project from next week. As a Windows developer his initial focus will be to put nix shell in Docker container. Following that, QML is the focus.
