# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Tuesday 21st November 2023, 10:00 - 10:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

### Agenda

1. Project Direction, November 23
2. TOML Specifics
3. AOB

## 1. Project Direction, November 23

- Codebase: All TOML unit-testing, including round-trip testing, complete, representing a major milestone achieved by AW.
- Codebase: Plan for user integration of TOML encapsulated as a three-stage process:
     1) Add in TOML support in v1.4.
     2) TOML becomes default file format for saving in v2.X, but old format still supported.
     3) Remove support for old file format in v3.X.
- Release Planning: Milestone 1.4 has been updated with a handful of small issues by TY, with the goal to complete before Christmas 2023.
- Staff: Rob Buchanan is making excellent progress integrating with the project, and has started on QML-specific tasks.
- Science: Slow progress on these targets due to TY focussing temporarily on other projects.
- CI: NS has put a great deal of effort into compiling Dissolve on Apple Silicon. POsitive by-products of this venture include moving to more up-to-date versions of ANTLR4, nix, and OneTBB.

## 2. TOML Specifics

Two issues up for discussion, and a third arising.

1. We don't currently store version information in the TOML file, but which we will need in order to support backwards compatibility. One issue in this regard is - how confident are we that we will follow semantic versioning? If we are, then we just need to store major version number, but if we change the meaning / name / type of a keyword etc. and don't adhere to SemVer we will break our own format. The team agreed that, psychologically at least, we do follow SemVer, but will enforce this line going forwards. It was also agreed that we will store the MAJOR and MINOR version numbers in the TOML file for safety, but will hopefully only ever use the MAJOR.

2. For the upcoming minor release we need to add a CLI option to convert input files to TOML, so which letter should we use? DN advocated the use of the long format options, and this should be the safest option and prevent users accidentally treading on the option by mistake.  The team agreed that `--to-toml` was a good choice.

3. We will require a loader stub function to detect the contents of a given input file - one approach would be to attempt to parse the TOML file and, if it fails, assume it is an old-format file and try to use the old loader. TY mentioned that users have on occasion tried to load in inappropriate files as input files, principally restart files, and which cause odd effects in the GUI.  It is perfectly possible to detect the type of our old-format files by looking at the comment lines at the very top - if we do this, and assume that any file actually labelled `.toml` is the new format, we can get the UX we require.

## 3. AOB

No matters arising.
