# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 15th December 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

### Agenda

1. Project Direction, December 23
2. Analysis for Developers
3. Moving to C++20
4. AOB

## 1. Project Direction, December 23

- Codebase: TOML integration complete and ready for inclusion in the 1.4 release.
- Release Planning: Milestone 1.4 is all but completed save for documentation which TY will address. Still on course for release prior to Christmas 2023.
- CI: NS completed work on upgrades to critical dependencies in the form of ANTLR4 and OneTBB. Nix also updated by AW in the process. Apple Silicon support its now a reality.
- Science: Again slow progress on these targets due to TY focussing necessarily on other projects.

## 2. Analysis for Developers

- DB and TY's work on the QSpecies module has highlighted several unnecessary developer-side bottlenecks to the implementation of relatively straightforward analysis.
- The original vision for Dissolve's analysis framework was for it to be flexible enough to be able to build up a `Procedure` for any required task, but utilise the same system for code-side and user-side.
- For straightforward distribution functions this works well enough, but recent development of the QSpecies module has required the addition of a handful of new `ProcedureNode`s just to be able to perform simple tasks such as rebinning a histogram. While establishing a rich set of processing nodes is useful and in line with the original goal, when trying to use this node-based framework in place in the code is confusing, overly heavy, and restrictive.
- After discussing with the team TY has refactored the QSpecies module into a new `Analysis` framework (see [#1747](https://github.com/disorderedmaterials/dissolve/pull/1747) which reinvents the necessary steps into a small set of specific helper classes that enable more facile development of analysis methods.
- This is performed without touching the current `Procedure` and its node classes so as not to immediately break all analysis routines, enabling incremental work on refactoring all analysis modules before, ultimately, the potential / probable removal of the old system.
- The minor downside of this approach is that it completely prohibits users from writing their own routines (in the context of the end product rather than the code) but since to-date there have been no examples of this, there is probably little need for concern.
- Moving forward we should consider how the proposed new analysis framework could be externally scriptable in order to reintroduce this functionality for the users.

## 3. Moving to C++20

## 4. AOB

No matters arising.
