# Dissolve: Technical Steering Committee Meeting
### Friday 21st July 2023, 14:00 - 14:30
### Jitsi

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)

#### Apologies

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 26-29
2. Release Update
3. QML Forward Look
4. Sprint Planning, weeks 30-31
5. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 26-29

- AW put significant work into the new QML-based Add Forcefield Wizard (#1363) in order to handle discrepancies between widget styles, ultimately leading us to implement a set of subclassed Dissolve-specific widgets that have styles consistent with the current GUI layout.
- AW completed the initial integration of TOML with the mainline development stream, representing a huge amount of work (#1466)
- DB completed work on integer-based histograms (#1431) and a new histogrammed coordination number module (#1416)
- TY handled a host of small bugs and issues discovered ahead of Dissolve being used at a workshop, and updated documentation according to the many recent changes / additions to the code
- TY moved the codebase to use lowerCamelCase style filenames which was incredibyl tedious, but very much worth it (#1415)
- JS completed the implementation of fragment-based sites and their generation (#1465, #1467) and added capability for fragment rotation (#1468).
- JS implemented new additional potentials in the form of LJ-style spheres (#1473) and directional cylinders (#1476).
- JS tidied several Configuration-related options into ProcedureNode-based equivalents (#1490, #1491, #1492)
- JS made significant changes to the layout of the GUI, reducing tabs and clutter on the Species and Configuration tabs, and made several other small bugfixes and improvements.
- JS has a PR in on the basic structure underpinning molecular CIF handling (#1549)
- NS made some additions / corrections to documentation and fixed the module timing issue (#1539)

## 2. Release Update

- v1.3 was release in week 27 encompassing recent additions to functionality, followed in week 28 by v1.3.1 fixing several usability issues.
- This release was used in the Diamond XPDF Workshop, held 17/18th July 2023. Many positive comments on the software were received.

## 3. QML Forward Look

- TY asked a general question about out migration to QML. Given the baseline provided by the new Add Forcefield Wizard (#1363) and the consistency that our subclassed widget library will offer with the current GUI layout, we are now in a position to think about moving the whole GUI over to QML, but how should that be achieved?
- AW suggested that dialogs were the best starting point since they could be converted in relative isolation to the rest of the code.
- AW also recalled an earlier conversation had by the team regarding this, and a suggestion that we could migrate widgets / dialogs / other objects as and when we have to perform some other upkeep / change on them. However, this is viewed as not ideal, since this involves changing the fundamental operation of the dialog at the same time as its intended action, which could result in otherwise avoidable headaches.
- So, dialogs remain the obvious first targets, and things like keyword widgets could be treated in batches since their UI footprint is quite small.

## 4. Sprint Planning, weeks 30-31

- AW to finalise / merge QML-based add forcefield wizard / Dissolve QML widgets (#1363).
- AW to return to TOML and clean up failing TOML tests.
- DB to implement Q species, building on coordination number histograms.
- JS to work towards Control Layers (#88) and molecular CIF handling (#276).
- NS to work on range-based error calculation with a view to implementing #1548
- TY to address bugs discovered during XPDF workshop, and contribute to other ongoing work as necessary.

## 5. AOB

- No matters arising.
